Israeli authorities say at least three
people have been killed and several more
wounded after gunmen opened fire at a
bus stop in Jerusalem police say the
attackers arrived in a car and started
firing on people waiting for
[Music]
buses this footage of the attack was
posted on social media by the Israeli
foreign Ministry two Palestinian
suspects were killed on the scene by
Security
Forces news of the attack came shortly
after a truce between Israel and Hamas
militants was extended into a seventh
day the truth the truth was brought
first break in the Israeli bombardment
of the Gaza strips since the Hamas
Terror attacks on Israel on October
7th let's bring in DW correspondent Ben
fulan in Jerusalem Ben what more can you
tell us about the shooting
attack
police say they neutralized in their
words the two attackers bringing the
total number of deaths to five several
injured as you mentioned uh one killed
at the scene two on their way uh dying
on their way to hospital uh this all
comes at a time of heightened tension
here in Jerusalem and in occupied East
Jerusalem as well as the occupied West
Bank there have been raids by police uh
almost every day since the beginning of
this war and especially uh with the
background of these Palestinian
prisoners being released uh there are
claims that police have been raiding
their homes uh surrounding some of the
hospitals preventing ambulances from uh
arriving at those hospitals to bring in
the injured and uh clashes both between
um militants and Israeli forces also uh
a huge anti-terror operation is what
Israel is calling it in Janine uh the
considered the stronghold of Palestinian
militants where two young boys died
yesterday Ben US Secretary of State
Anthony blinkin is back in Israel what
does he want to achieve this
time he's trying to get that truce
extended uh a longer ceasefire or
permanent ceasefire is not on the US's
agenda nor is it on Israel's agenda but
uh blink did uh just say uh recently
that um
after these talks that progress is being
made that's the main thing that these
hostages are being released that it all
is going ahead uh as planned even though
it's all so last minute it shows just
how fragile this ceasefire is they were
expecting it to be extended by 4 days
only by another 24 hours so it's being
taken day by day uh these hostage
hostage release lists also being
released and uh these lists of
Palestinian
prisoners yeah Israel says it has
received a list of hostages who could be
released today Ben what more do you
know uh this is a really tricky one
Anthony because we've just had news on
hamas's news channels that three of the
hostages their bodies will be handed
over as part of that list today we can't
confirm those reports uh but it does
line up with what Hamas was saying
yesterday that the youngest member of
the entire hostage group a 10-month old
baby uh is dead according to them along
with his four-year-old brother and
mother uh they claim this occurred
during Israeli air strikes prior to the
truce um whether or not this is true uh
there are so many doubts over this
because Hamas has claimed this before an
elderly woman who they declared dead was
released among some of the first of the
hostages to be released alive and uh
they they've claimed that some 60 of the
hostages in all have died during what
they call hisra the air strike so uh
lots of doubts uh whether or not there
will be an extension today which
hostages will be Rel uh released and
whether or not they will be dead or
alive Anthony DWS Ben fulan in Jerusalem
thank
you I can now speak to a ad she's the
granddaughter of 85-year-old yafa adah
one of the first Israeli hostages free
by Hamas welcome to DW adva after weeks
of what must have been horrendous
uncertainty how does it feel to be
reunited with your
grandmother wow H it's like a dream
coming true we were waiting about these
days for 59 days and uh being able to
see her and hug her and smell her H it
means the word to us and uh and uh at
the same time
it breaks our heart to think about all
the others that are still being held
hostage and among them also my cousin
Tamir he a 38 years old father of two
young children and is still in
Gaza yeah those contrasting emotions
obviously as you're waiting for news of
your cousin um almost a week now after
the release of your grandmother though
how is your grandmother doing at this
point
uh she's very strong and inspiring and
she's a she's starting to understand
what happened to her what happened to
this country and she's trying to recover
and uh we're trying to do whatever it
takes in order to help her uh recover
from this Hell she's being through what
has she told you uh about where she was
and how she was treated as a hostage of
heras I can share the information I can
only tell you that the conditions were
nothing like an 85 years old woman needs
the the basic needs of an 85 years old
woman are
definitely weren't what she she's been
through so um but I I can't share
specific information
absolutely I can't I can understand what
you can and can't share with the outside
world one thing the outside world did
see was when she was abducted a video of
her arrival in Gaza that went viral your
grandmother yafa Adar was being driven
around in a golf cart wrapped in a pink
flowered blanket and many admired her
for her calm and her stoic posture she
looked like she wasn't going to dignify
the occasion by projecting fear but how
did she really deal with what came after
that uh from what she's sharing uh she
kept this strength all over the the way
even uh at Hard Times she kept optimism
and she kept her her strength and uh her
dignity and it was very important to her
uh to be able to survive this hell and
to come back home and and uh she's
saying that even in hard times she could
hear the great grandson calling her and
and that it gave her it gave her power
and it's uh it told her that she has to
to do whatever it takes to survive and
she's done and she's it's so inspiring
and I'm so proud to be her granddaughter
and um I really wish that my cousin and
all the other hostages will be back so
we can
reunite uh as a family and as a country
with our loved ones and to be able to
recover from this tragic uh tragic uh
things that are happened here you talk
with great pride understandably about
the strength of your grandmother and how
that helped her get through the actual
experience but I wonder what kind of
help is she getting to cope with what
she's been through and how she's going
to plot a way forward through her life
now
we're still trying to figure it out with
her uh it's still uh we still trying to
understand her needs and uh and how we
can uh help her so right now we're
focusing on giving her a lot of love and
being with her at this really hard
minute and uh and along the way we will
uh we will understand how and uh we will
do everything in our power to make sure
she will have a better future let's come
back to where we started we we talked
about the contrasting emotions of your
grandmother being free but many more
Israelis still being held hostage in
Gaza among them your cousin toir whose
photo you hold what do you know if
anything about his well-being at this
point unfortunately nothing uh
unfortunately we at least with my
grandmother we had the video we knew she
was taken
alive with Tamir we have no information
we don't know his condition we don't
know if he's injured and if he's getting
any medical care H it's really hard uh
not knowing
uh what how is he handling this and what
what he needs and uh when he will be
able to come back because as you know
there's no deal that uh that is is
talking about demands and we really need
to think about them as someone's father
or someone's sons and we need to return
them to their families they lived their
lives quietly they got taken from their
lives from their houses and they are
civilians that needs to come back
home ad proud cousin of Tamir proud
granddaughter freed hostage yafa uh
thank you so much for sharing with
us thank you thank
you